First paragraph on set up of robot. Doesn’t need to go in to details such as part number, etc.


The robot platform is a four-wheeled vehicle constructed of multiple tiers layered on top of a chassis. The robot is controlled locally by an on-board Arduino, which receives commandswaypoint coordinates from a remote computer and executes the motor commands accordingly. The robot is equipped with multiple sensors which collect data and send it to the computer via XBee. Encoders determine how far the robot has traveled in the environment, an IR distance sensor determines the distance the robot is from any obstacles, and a current sensor measures the current going from the robot’s batteries to the motors. The robot is also equipped with a solar panel, which acts as both a sensor and an energy transducer. The Arduino constantly reads the output voltage of the solar panel, using positive spikes in voltage to judge where there are potential locations for recharging its batteries. This information allows the robot to return to these locations in order to recharge when its battery charge drops below a defined threshold. 


Second paragraph on experiments to run (terrain experiments). 


We designed experiments in order to determine the amount of charge required to traverse various types of terrain. This data is key to our path planning algorithm because it allows the algorithm to predict how much charge will be necessary to drive along a given path. The experiment findsmeasures the current used to drive a defined distance through a process known as Coulomb counting. [citation]


Equation 1: Coulomb countingCurrent is the integral of current with respect to time. Coulomb counting is the process of taking instantaneous current measurements and summing over  time.

For the experiment, the robot drives a defined distance and takes readings of current from the batteries to the motors. The integral is then found using a right Riemann sum. After completing multiple tests of varying distances, we built a graph of charge used versus distance drivenThe graph below shows charge used as a function of distance travelled. 


Figure 1: Graph of charge used versus length driven

The path planning algorithm can then predict the amount of charge necessary to drive a given distance over a given surface by interpolating or extrapolating from this graph. Finally, we conducted tests over multiple surfaces in order to characterize different surface types that the robot may encounter. 

Surface
Charge/length
Linoleum floor

Concrete

Dirt

Short grass

Shrubs

Table 1: Charge per unit length of different surfaces

